---
layout: post
title: Hack This Site - Realistic - ToxiCo Industrial Chemicals
topic: Hack This Site
---

Welcome back to my walkthrough of hackthissite.org's CTF missions. I will be going through my thought process of how I solved these missions, and therefore also giving away the solutions. If you came across this to give you hints, watch out for spoilers! Good luck, have fun.

Our next realistic mission is to decode an encrypted message in which the encryption algorithm used is the 'XECryption algorithm'. The first thing that I will do is save the encrypted text onto my computer so that I can easily analyze it. The first thing that I instantly notice when looking at the ciphertext is that there is an equal number of '.' as there are numbers. Secondly, it is noteable that each number is a 3 digit number. Thirdly, there seems to be a range in which the 3 digit numbers fall into. A simple python script can output the min & max values that are found within this ciphertext, which gives a range of `[210, 350]`. Keeping these observations in mind, we will move onto playing around with the cipher to try and determine the algorithm.

Using no 'encryption password' as they designate it, a plaintext of `a` results with the ciphertext of `.6.26.65`. Something that instantly stands out is that `6+26+65=97` and `97` is the decimal designation for the `a` ASCII character. A plaintext of `b` results with the ciphertext of `.43.41.14` which, when added, results in the decimal representation of `b` as an ASCII character. Another thing to note is that repeatedly encrypting the same character would give different results, but their sum would always match with the decimal representation of that character in ASCII. (it takes the asscii rep of the key & adds the decimal rep of each inidiv key & splits it in 3 with the dots)
